Mail vom 28.09.2017

Das Proposal sollte kurz die Aufgabe skizzieren 
1) Was ist Session Recommendation?
2) Was bedeutet Memory in NN? Wo wird so etwas angewendet? Was erhoffst du dir davon?

3) anschließend aufzeigen, welche Ideen du im Rahmen der Masterarbeit umsetzen möchtest 
	3.1) Welche bekannten Ansätze gibt es, die auf das Problem anwendbar sind?
	3.2) Wie wird evaluiert - Datensätze, Metriken? 
	3.3) Eventuell Ideen für neue Ansätze
	
	
	
	
	
	
1) Owner of e-commerce websites make often use of so-called Recommender Systems, which aim to 
enhancer user experience by making personalized recommendations for each user. In a webshop for instance this could be
a suggestion which item could be interesting for a specific user. 
Most of the existing Recommender Systems use historical data to make recommendations (e.g. from previous buys, built from saved user profiles).
However, this often not possible, because of new users without historical data or just users without profiles on the website.
In this case you rely only on the data generated from the current browsing-session and have to realize a Session-based Recommendation in order
to make predictions for users.
In Session-based Recommendation a set of sequences of actions/events (a set of session) is given and the objective is to predict the next element each session 
as precicesly as possible.

For a click-sequence for instance (Item1, Item2, Item3, Item4, ?) , a Recommender System should 
be able to predict the item followed by Item4 which is selected by the user. Note that there is no
use of previous clicks from the specific user outside of the currently viewed session possible.

2) Neural Networks can be equiped with a more extended memory (additionaly to the memory being realized by the layer weights)
in order to make more accurate predictions. Reccurrent Neural Networks (RNN)[] for example are given an additional state memory 
making it possible to consider previous inputs as well, which is very useful for sequential data.
Other approaches to grant Neural Networks a more sophisticated memory with higher capacity have been researched by [Mnih et al. (2016)] [Weston et al. (2015)]
The fast-weights approach of Mnih et al. had grate success at image processing tasks (on Nist and MultiPIE) and seems to be suited for situations where the number of hidden units is limited
and improve even more if the memory size is increased

3) 

3.1) 
+ Hidden Markov Models (HMM), Markov Decision Process (MDP)(Shani et al. 2002), neighborhood methods (according to Hidasi et al.),
+ RNNs:
	  + Implemented as Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) 
	  + Gated Recurrent Unit (GRU) - used by both Hidasi et al.(2016) and Tanyongkiam et al.(2016), according to Hidasi GRU performed better than LSTM on session-recommendation
		They interpreted the task as a sequence of clicks and let the network learn the item-to-item-similarity like how it's done on nlp
+ Possible new candidates (NNs with additional memory):
	  + Fast-weights-NN [Mnih et al. (2016)]
	  + End-to-End Memory Networks [Sukbaatar et al.(2015)] form of a Memory Network from [Weston et al. (2015)]
			Problems: 1) Actually there is no q in the session-recommendation task or q is always the same in session-recommendation
			          2) Considering order of the sequence (which is crucial for session-recommendation) might not be compatible with this nn
						 There is the possibility of temporal encoding though (-> 4.1 temporal encoding)
	  + Key-Value Memory Networks [Miller et al.(2016)] based on end-to-end Memory Network from [Sukbaatar et al.(2015)] 
			Same Problems as normal end-to-end mem nets have


3.2) Evalutaion shall be realized on the anonymously collected session-recommendation set RecSys15 by YooChoose.
The dataset consists of about 33000000 click events, about 1150000 buy events and 53000 different item ids.
The simplest approach would be performing an analysis on the click data set only considering the item sequences and ignoring additional information
like the timestamp, the item category.
One problem arises from the fact that the user sessions in the data set can vary dramatically. 
While some only have two click elements another session could have more than 100 clicks, which could make sequential processing like processing words of a sentence even more difficult.

Considering evaluation metrics [TODO MEAN RECIPROCAL RANK@20] [TODO RECALL@20] could be used

3.3) EMPTY TODO TODO TODO TODO TODO